hey guys it's mr. herp steer and today's
focus is gonna be on incomplete
dominance codominance and multiple
wheels now before we get into all that
let's make sure we're comfortable with
this idea of being dominant or recessive
but basically if something if an if an
allele is dominant has the ability to
mask or like cap off or cover up the
other allele from showing up in biology
a lot of times we like to use flowers so
for example we can have purple flowers
we're gonna have white flowers and then
also we're gonna have purple flowers
well this flower right here is big P
little P so he's what's called being
heterozygote for flower color but if you
take a look he ends up being purple this
flower here is big P big P and it's
purple this flower here is a little P
little P and it's white but this one
here is one of each and it's still
purple so we know for sure that that big
P right there has the ability to mask
that little P so we don't end up seeing
any white however sometimes we get this
weird concept called incomplete
dominance where actually we end up
seeing both of those traits at the same
time so it's where we get this third
phenotype where it's sort of a mix of
the other two phenotypes for example we
can have red flowers right big R big R
we're gonna have white flowers which are
little R little R but sometimes they can
mix together where we have one of each
and they end up being pink to find out a
little bit more about this phenomenon
called incomplete dominance please
follow this link right here it'll take
you to a video one of my co-workers made
great video and it'll explain a little
bit more how we can use punnett squares
to show how incomplete dominance works
another phenomena we find in biology is
this idea of codons where actually we
have both alleles sort of show up at the
same time a really good example of that
is sickle-cell anemia and humans
sickle-cell is a disease in human blood
that actually if you haven't people
with sickle cell won't survive into
adulthood but we have normal blood cells
and we can have sickle cell blood cells
these ones here are the ones that make
people really sick and then sometimes we
can actually have what's called
codominance where some of them are
sickle cell and some of the cell blood
cells are normal it's it's as if both of
them show up to find out more about
codominance and how we can use punnett
squares to show how code down and its
works please follow the link right here
another thing we find in biology is
multiple alleles where as we've been
discovering instead of having just one
allele example tall or short or brown
eyes or blue eyes we have many many
alleles that show up in the human
population and actually ultimately most
of the time most traits end up doing
work this way where we have many many
many of Leal's that account for the same
type of trait one of those examples is
blood type in human beings we have many
different blood types that are found in
human beings you can be type-a blood you
can be type B blood you can be type A
blood and you can be Type O blood and
also you can be type a positive a
negative B positive B negative a be
positive a be negative and a positive or
a negative so all those things are
traits found in the human in the human
population but you don't show all of
those at the same time to find out more
information on how multiple alleles
works please find the link right here
anyway guys that will conclude the
introduction to incomplete dominance
codominance and multiple alleles
this is mr. Hurst I'm signing off have a
nice day